Opened in 1912 as the Chief Post Office, and then in 2001 renovated as the Britomart Transport Centre, it is now called the Waitemata Station, and is the central hub of the Auckland train network.<br><br>Located at Te Komititanga Square at the bottom of Queen St, Waitemata station is adjacent to the ferry and cruise ship terminals with the Commercial Bay shopping mall and  bus hub on the opposite side of the square.<image>Waitemata station along with its siblings CBD stations Karanga-a-Hape Station and Te Waihorotiu Station, they are excellent locations to start your exploration of Auckland’s vibrant and spiritual heart.

Swanson
Situated at the western end of the Western Line, the Swanson station includes both modern shelters and the relocated historic Avondale station building which now houses a popular café.<br><br>With significant housing developments in the area the station will see increased patronage.<image>

Penrose
Located in the middle of the industrial suburb of Penrose it opened in 1873 as part of the Auckland to Onehunga line, the first government owned rail line in the North Island. Being the closest station to the “Go Media”/”Mount Smart” stadium it also serves as an event stations.<br><br>The station has 3 platforms, with platforms 1 and 2 on either side of the historic station building for catching services on the Southern Line and platform 3, accessible via a long overbridge, for Onehunga Line trains.

Newmarket
With 3 tracks and 4 platforms located in the centre of the upmarket precinct of Newmarket, the station is one of the busiest stations on the network. Whether it’s high fashion shopping, the cinema or just the Westfield Newmarket Shopping Centre, this is the way to get there.<br><br>Opening in 1873 for the Auckland to Onehunga line, this station was fully renovated between 2008 and 2010 as part of KiwiRail’s Developing Auckland’s Rail Transport, DART, program. With the original historical station building moved to Parnell, Newmarket has a fitting station. 

Manukau station
Sitting beneath the Manukau Institute of Technology since 2012, the Manukau train station rests at the end of the Eastern Line service on a 2.5 spur line off the North Island Main Trunk. Students, shoppers and tourists benefit from direct access to the Institute and short walk to the surrounding shops and mall.<image>At the time of opening by the Auckland mayor, it was the first new line in 80 years, with some reports suggesting the spur and station cost $90m. In 2018 the Manukau station was reported to be the 11th busiest station out of the then 40 stations.

Papakura Station
Opening in 1875 as part of the Auckland to Mercer railway, it has seen several renovations including an electrification in 2015. The historic ticket office building was refurbished in 2012 and relocated to the west side of the station where it operates as a bus shelter.<image>Lying on the North Island Main Trunk railway, with 3 platforms, 2 lifts and a walkway across the entire station it services both Northern Explorer, and Auckland metro trains. Papakura train station is a vital transport interchange in south Auckland and also home to the Papakura Stabling yard, home to approximately 8 trains.

Onehunga station
Like the Penrose station the Onehunga station opened in 1873 as part of the Auckland to Onehunga line, with the line being extended to Onehunga Wharf on 28 November 1878. Onehunga line services remained until services stopped in1973 but thankfully resumed in 2010 after much campaigning from local residents.<br><br>Located on the Manukau Harbour, Onehunga began as a military settlement and over time moved into heavy industry including 3 freezing works and the Onehunga Ironworks. In the early days it thrived as a timber and passenger port and today still functions as a secondary port.<image>With a diverse range of shops, cafes, art and rich history, including Elizabeth Yates, the first female mayor in the British Empire and Sophia Bates, New Zealand’s first postmistress, Onehunga is an excellent place to explore.

Auckland Strand Station
Utilizing what was platform 7 of the old Auckland Railway station the Auckland Strand Station serves as the northern terminus for Northern Explorer services to Wellington and Te Huia services to Hamilton. Unfortunately for Northern Explorer and Te Huia passengers their services don’t go to Waitemata station, nor do Auckland metro trains stop at the Strand.<br><br>Sitting alongside the station is the Strand Distributed Stabling Facility which holds trains not in use.<image>


